So yeah, let's next look into all the
different amazing ways people use the web.
And I wanna kind of go over these and
then maybe we could stop and
have a little discussion on
what the impact of that is or
what you think about when you
think about these different ways.
So the first way that people
use the web is keyboard only.
This can be a lot of different folks,
folks that struggle to use a mouse for
numerous different reasons.
It also can just be oftentimes power users
that are just trying to get keyboard
shortcuts to move faster through
their their day-to-day jobs.
So when we think about
keyboard-only users,
we think about folks that
aren't able to use the mouse.
So I wanna think about is everything on
your website accessible keyboard only?
I'm not sure.
Are there things that you can only
click on but you can't maybe tab to or
something like that?
I also wanna think about things that
are very quick to do in a mouse.
For example, scrolling to the bottom
of a page and clicking on a form.
That might take forever to do on
a keyboard if you're just tab,
tab, tab tabbing all the way through.
Other folks use these really great
assistive technologies like a head wand.
So for that you can basically think
about a user having a keyboard and
accessing it with a wand on their head.
So again, the things we talked about
before become even more important,
like how many keystrokes does
it take to do something?
And is everything doable
via keyboard only?
Other folks use a mouth stick,
these are popular with tablets,
as you can see in the picture,
same idea as a head wand.
So again,
we're kind of thinking about these things.
One of my favorite pieces of
technology is a single switch.
And folks use this that aren't
able to use a keyboard.
And so it literally is just one button.
So if you imagine one of those, like
a virtual keyboard that you can bring up,
the accessibility keyboards.
So you hit the single switch once and
it starts going row by row down
the virtual keyboard highlighting the row.
And then you hit it again and
then takes that row and saves it and
starts going column by column through.
So you could think about
it like the tilde row.
I'm just looking at my laptop, the Q row,
A, and then you hit the switch again and
it goes into A, S, D, F.
Then you hit it again and it sends an F.
And so again, you can imagine that folks
using the keyboard like this would
really benefit from anything you can
do to make it less keystrokes to
get to the piece of content
that they're looking to get to.
And then the last one that I wanna
cover for now is a screen reader.
And so a screen reader can be a completely
nonvisual way of interacting with the web.
So it's software that works on your
laptop, your phone, your iPad, whatever.
And it will read out in an audio format,
it'll read out all the content
that you're accessing.
And then users will input
just using their keyboard.
So it'll say, hey, this is a form,
please enter your first name.
And then the user will, using a keyboard,
type their first name and hit next Next.
And then it'll say, okay, hey,
this is a form, enter your password.
So you kinda have this dialogue
going with the screen reader.
Does anybody have any questions about
those kind of formats or how they work or
what people would use them for?
The question was, we have ways with
browsers of sniffing out things like is
the user on a mobile device?
Is there a way to sniff out things like
is the user using a screen reader?
Or is the user using assistive technology?
At a very high level, the answer is no.
There's no API that says if a screen
reader or something like that.
But there are really clever ways that
we can speak directly to assitive
technologies.
So I do have some examples
coming up of that.
But one thing that you could think about
is, if you could put a piece of content at
the very top of your screen and hide it
with CSS, but it's still there with HTML,
and you say, hey, screen reader user,
check out this link for
keyboard shortcuts or something like that.
Which is something we do when
I was working at twitter.com.
Visually, you will not
be able to see that.
But as the screen reader
starts reading all the HTML,
the very first thing it'll read is that.
And so we'll cover how to do that.
But yeah, the kinda big answer is no,
there's not a guaranteed way of doing it.
But there are some really cool
tricks that we can do to speak
directly to users using
assistive technologies.
That's a great question too.
So just to repeat is thinking
about all these different devices,
does it mean that kinda anything that
you're doing is gonna benefit all of
the users using those devices?
The short answer is absolutely yes.
I think that we really see
these very clear trends.
Which is, for example,
right now we're looking at,
can you do everything via keyboard?
And how much time are you willing to put
into neat ways of making it take less
keystrokes to do that thing, right?
And so we have a section later on
power user keyboard shortcuts and
things like that.
But yeah, absolutely,
we're really looking at the same thing,
despite a wide array of devices.
We're just looking at ways of making
a keyboard only, making it read really
nicely to a screen reader, and
making it take fewer number of keystrokes.